Hi everyone, in this video I'm going to show you how to navigate the North Central University
Library website, how to use it to support your classes, research papers, and projects.
If you've ever opened the library page and thought, okay, where do I start? You're not alone. So today
I'll walk you through the main areas and show you exactly where to go depending on what you need.
Let's jump in. When you first go to library.northcentral.edu, this is our main
library homepage. Think of this page as your research hub. Everything you need starts here.
At the top you'll see navigation tabs. These include things like find help, resources and
services, about the library, and contact information. In the center of the page you'll see search tools
and quick links. These are designed so you don't have to click around a lot and you can start
researching right away. If you're ever unsure of where to begin, just come back to this homepage.
Let's say you need a book for a class. You'll use the library search bar to look up a specific
title, an author, or keywords related to your topic. For example, if your paper is about servant
leadership, you could type in servant leadership and browse available books. When the results come
up, you'll be able to see whether it's available as an e-book or if it's a physical book in the
library, its call number, and its availability status. If it's an e-book, you can click directly
into it and start reading right away. If it's in print, the call number tells you exactly where
to find it in the library. This search tool is great for when you're looking for background
information or want to explore books on a broader topic. Now, if you're writing a research paper,
you'll probably need scholarly peer-reviewed articles. For that, you'll click on the databases
tab. Databases are where you'll find academic journal articles, research studies, peer-reviewed
sources, and credible material for your assignments. Once inside a database, you can search by topic
just like you would in Google, but the results are academic sources, so you can also limit to
peer-reviewed articles, narrow by publication date, and select full text only as well. If your
professor mentions a specific database in your syllabus, this is where you'll find it. Here is
limiting to full text, here is limiting by date, and this is how to narrow by peer-reviewed sources.
And remember, databases are almost always the best place to start when your assignment requires
scholarly resources. If you're feeling overwhelmed or unsure where to begin, check out our research
guides. Research guides are organized by subject or course, and they're created by librarians to
point you towards the best resources quickly. Inside a guide, you might find recommended
databases, suggested search terms, key books, citation help, and sometimes short tutorials too.
They're especially helpful if you're new to a topic or just want a clear starting point. Formatting
citations can be stressful, especially if you're not sure if you're using APA, MLA, or SBL. On the
library website, you can find citation resources to help you form. You can format in-text citations,
reference lists, bibliographies, and sometimes even sample papers. Before you submit an assignment,
it's always a good idea to double check your citations here. And finally, please don't feel
like you have to figure everything out on your own. If you're stuck, confused, or just not finding
what you need, please reach out. You can email the library, you can schedule a research consultation,
or stop by in person. We're here to help you at any stage of the research process, whether you're
choosing a topic, finding sources, or formatting citations. I hope this overview helps you feel more
confident in using the NCU library website. Whenever you're working on an assignment,
start here. And if you have any questions, we're always happy to help. Happy researching!